ECS audit logging (#74640)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/security/audit-logging.asciidoc

=== Audit logs

You can enable auditing to keep track of security-related events such as
authorization success and failures. Logging these events enables you to monitor
{kib} for suspicious activity and provides evidence in the event of an attack.

> Use the {kib} audit logs in conjunction with {es}'s audit logging to get a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the {kib} audit logs in conjunction with {ref}/enable-audit-logging.html[{es} audit logging] to get a
```

> holistic view of all security related events. {kib} defers to {es}'s security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
holistic view of all security related events. {kib} defers to the {es} security
```

model for authentication, data index authorization, and features that are driven
by cluster-wide privileges. For more information on enabling audit logging in

> {es}, see {ref}/auditing.html[Auditing security events].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{es}, refer to {ref}/auditing.html[Auditing security events].
```

[IMPORTANT]
============================================================================
Audit logs are **disabled** by default. To enable this functionality, you must
set `xpack.security.audit.enabled` to `true` in `kibana.yml`.
============================================================================

The current version of the audit logger uses the standard {kib} logging output,

> which can be configured in the `kibana.yml` and is discussed in <<settings>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which can be configured in `kibana.yml`. For more information, refer to <<settings>>.
```

> The new audit logger (beta) uses a separate logger and can be configured using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The audit logger uses a separate logger and can be configured using
```

> the options shown in <<audit-logging-settings>>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the options in <<audit-logging-settings>>. 
```

==== Audit event types

When you are auditing security events, each request can generate multiple audit
events. The following is a list of the events that can be generated:

|======
| `saved_objects_authorization_success`    | Logged when a user is authorized to access a saved
                                             objects when using a role with <<kibana-privileges>>
| `saved_objects_authorization_failure`    | Logged when a user isn't authorized to access a saved
                                             objects when using a role with <<kibana-privileges>>
|======

> ==== ECS audit events (beta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== ECS audit events
```

beta[]

[IMPORTANT]
============================================================================

> The following events are only logged if the new audit logger (beta) is enabled,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following events are only logged if the audit logger is enabled.
```

> by setting the `xpack.security.audit.appender` option, as shown in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on how to configure `xpack.security.audit.appender`, refer to
```

<<audit-logging-settings>>.
============================================================================

> Below is a list of events that can be logged for auditing purposes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the table of events that can be logged for auditing purposes. 
```

Each event is broken down into `category`, `type`, `action` and `outcome` fields
to make it easy to filter, query and aggregate the resulting logs. 

[NOTE]
============================================================================
To ensure that a record of every operation is persisted even in case of an
unexpected error, asynchronous write operations are logged immediately after all

> authorisation checks have passed, but before the response is received. Please

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authorization checks have passed, but before the response is received.
```

> authorization checks have passed, but before the response is received.

Reviewer 2: I stuck for a few seconds before realized **response from Elasticsearch** is meant. Is it worth clarifying?

Author: Yes, agree this makes it clearer

> consult the corresponding Elasticsearch logs to see potential write errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the corresponding {es} logs for potential write errors.
```

============================================================================

[cols="5*<",options="header"]
|======
| Category
| Type
| Action
| Outcome

> | Description

Author: Yeh, I've noticed that too and tried to think of alternatives but they all make it harder to understand that the `action` field is actually not the most important one anymore and you're probably better off filtering/aggregating by category/type which is why I placed them first. 

I'd prefer not to split these up into multiple tables that need to be cross referenced. 

One idea I had was too add headings to break them up by category, e.g.:

```markdown
# ECS audit events

## Authentication events

Action | Outcome | Description

## Database events

### Creation events

Action | Outcome | Description

### Change events

Action | Outcome | Description

## Web events

Action | Outcome | Description
```

What do you think?

> | Description

Reviewer 3: Sure that could work. You can make one table with merged cells for the headings so that the column widths are consistent, e.g., 
```asciidoc
[cols="3*<"]
|======

3+a| ### Category: authentication

| Action
| Outcome
| Description

| `user_login`
| `success`
| User has logged in successfully.

| `user_login`
| `failure`
| Failed login attempt (e.g. due to invalid credentials).

3+a| ### Category: database

3+a| #### Type: creation

| Action
| Outcome
| Description

| `saved_object_create`
| `unknown`
| User is creating a saved object.

...
```

| `authentication`
| 
| `user_login`
| `success`

> | User has logged in successfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User has logged in successfully.
```

| `authentication`
| 
| `user_login`
| `failure`

> | Failed login attempt (e.g. due to invalid credentials)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Failed login attempt (e.g. due to invalid credentials).
```

| `database`
| `creation`
| `saved_object_create`
| `unknown`

> | User is creating a saved object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is creating a saved object
```
```suggestion
| User is creating a saved object.
```

| `database`
| `creation`
| `saved_object_create`
| `failure`

> | User is not authorised to create a saved object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is not authorized to create a saved object.
```

| `database`
| `change`
| `saved_object_update`
| `unknown`

> | User is updating a saved object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is updating a saved object.
```

| `database`
| `change`
| `saved_object_update`
| `failure`

> | User is not authorised to update a saved object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is not authorized to update a saved object.
```

| `database`
| `change`
| `saved_object_add_to_spaces`
| `unknown`

> | User is adding a saved object to other spaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is adding a saved object to other spaces.
```

| `database`
| `change`
| `saved_object_add_to_spaces`
| `failure`

> | User is not authorised to add a saved object to other spaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is not authorized to add a saved object to other spaces.
```

| `database`
| `change`
| `saved_object_delete_from_spaces`
| `unknown`

> | User is removing a saved object from other spaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is removing a saved object from other spaces.
```

| `database`
| `change`
| `saved_object_delete_from_spaces`
| `failure`

> | User is not authorised to remove a saved object from other spaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is not authorized to remove a saved object from other spaces.
```

| `database`
| `deletion`
| `saved_object_delete`
| `unknown`

> | User is deleting a saved object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is deleting a saved object.
```

| `database`
| `deletion`
| `saved_object_delete`
| `failure`

> | User is not authorised to delete a saved object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is not authorized to delete a saved object.
```

| `database`
| `access`
| `saved_object_get`
| `success`

> | User has accessed a saved object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User has accessed a saved object.
```

| `database`
| `access`
| `saved_object_get`
| `failure`

> | User is not authorised to access a saved object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is not authorized to access a saved object.
```

| `database`
| `access`
| `saved_object_find`
| `success`

> | User has accessed a saved object as part of a search operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User has accessed a saved object as part of a search operation.
```

| `database`
| `access`
| `saved_object_find`
| `failure`

> | User is not authorised to search for saved objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is not authorized to search for saved objects.
```

| `web`
| 
| `http_request`
| `unknown`

> | User is making an HTTP request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is making an HTTP request.
```

| `saved_objects_authorization_failure`    | Logged when a user isn't authorized to access a saved
                                             objects when using a role with <<kibana-privileges>>
|======

> 

Reviewer 4: Earlier in this file, there is a reference to writing to the standard output. We should probably update that to indicate that it's only true for the legacy audit logger:

> Audit logging uses the standard Kibana logging output, which can be configured in the kibana.yml and is discussed in Configure Kibana.
